doc: adding guide doc use the tool. (#27)
ceph/persistent-volume-migrator: README.md

> # What is persistent-volume-migrator?

Reviewer: Maybe this doc should just be two sections
- Prerequisites (stopping the app, creating the target storage class, etc)
- Command line usage

More end-to-end documentation will be in rook (for flex migration) or in a different .md for in-tree

Author: Currently, it has 4 sections

1. # What is persistent-volume-migrator?
2. # Getting Started
3.  ## Prerequisite
4. ## Steps to Migrate

You are suggesting removing 1st two sections but this is the main doc that the user will see.

Reviewer: Looks good as it is now, the rook links were just strange

The persistent-volume-migrator tool aims to help migrate Flex RBD Volumes to [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi) RBD Volumes.

# Getting Started
**NOTE**: The Migration procedure will come with a downtime; As we need to scale down the applications using the Volumes before migration.
## Prerequisite
This guide assumes you have created a Ceph cluster with Flex and [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi).
1) Minimum ceph version should be Ceph-CSI supported
2) Existing volumes should be dynamically provisioned.

> 3) Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.

Reviewer: Instead of a prerequisite, let's make stopping the app the first step of the migration steps, then the last step is to start the application again.

Author: done

4) `ceph-common`packages, for rbd ceph commands.

> ## Steps to Mirgrate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Steps to Migrate
```

1) Create Ceph-CSI storageClass in which you want to migrate:

>    1) Example: `kubectl create -f https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/csi/rbd/storageclass.yaml`

Reviewer: It's odd to be referencing a rook example for the migration. This doc could just have in the prerequisites that the storage class exists

Author: changed

> 2) 1) Create rbac required to run migrator pod

Reviewer: Do these yamls exist? I don't see rbac.yaml

Author: oh the name is not correct right now, will change later

>    1) `kubectl create -f tests/manifests/rbac.yaml`

Reviewer: If manifests are being used by documentation, let's move them to a different folder other than `tests`, perhaps in `/manifests`. If the CI uses them as well, I'd suggest the CI point to `/manifests` instead of the test folder, but not to have documentation point to a test folder.

Author: right, I'll move once other pr get merged.

Author: done

3) Create migrator pod
   1) `kubectl create -f tests/manifests/toolbox.yaml`

> 4) Run command to start migration:

Reviewer: Before we can run commands, the migration binary needs to be curled to the migrator pod

Reviewer: @subhamkrai @Yuggupta27 To get this working, we need to release the binary so it can be easily pulled. Users should not need to build the binary themselves.

Author: okay, I'll add binary in the repo once other prs get merged.

>    ### To migrate **single** PVC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

      ## Migrate a Single PVC
```

>       1) `<binary_name> --pvc=<pvc-name> --pvc-namespace=<pvc-namespace> --destinationstorageclass=<storageclass-name-to-migrate-in> <--rook-namespace=rook-ceph> <--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace>`

Reviewer: - What's the actual binary name?
- Let's use square brackets for optional arguments and angle brackets for required arguments
```suggestion
      1) `pvc-migrator --pvc=<pvc-name> --pvc-namespace=<pvc-namespace> --destinationstorageclass=<storageclass-name-to-migrate-in> [--rook-namespace=rook-ceph] [--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace]`
```

Author: `pvc-migrator` is the name we have planned for. Currently, it `main` what we get after `go build main.go`

         1) `--pvc` :**required**: reads name of the pvc to migrate
         2) `--pvc-namespace` :**required**: reads the namespace of the PVC which is going to migrate

>          3) `--destinationstorageclass` :**required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you want mirgrate.

Reviewer: for consistency and readability
```suggestion
         3) `--destination-storageclass` :**required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you want mirgrate.
```

         4) `-rook-namespace`: reads namespace where rook operator is running. **Defalult rook-ceph**.
         5) `--ceph-cluster-namespace`: namespace where ceph cluster is created. **Defalult rook-ceph**.

>    ### To migrate **all** PVC in storageClass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ## Migrate All PVCs in a StorageClass
```

# What is persistent-volume-migrator?

The persistent-volume-migrator tool aims to help migrate Flex RBD Volumes to [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi) RBD Volumes.

# Getting Started
**NOTE**: The Migration procedure will come with a downtime; As we need to scale down the applications using the Volumes before migration.
## Prerequisite
This guide assumes you have created a Ceph cluster with Flex and [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi).
1) Minimum ceph version should be Ceph-CSI supported
2) Existing volumes should be dynamically provisioned.
3) Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.
4) `ceph-common`packages, for rbd ceph commands.
5) Ceph-CSI storageClass should be created in which you want to migrate.

## Steps to Migrate
1) Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.

> 2)   Create rbac required to run migrator pod

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
2) Create rbac required to run migrator pod
```

     1) `kubectl create -f tests/manifests/rbac.yaml`
3) Create migrator pod
   1) `kubectl create -f tests/manifests/toolbox.yaml`
4) Download the binary
   1) `wget <link to binary>`

> 5) Run command to start migration:

Reviewer: Let's have the complete steps, then they go to the other section for detailed command line options
```suggestion
5) Run a command to [migrate the PVC(s)](link to section below)
6) Verify the migration succeeded
7) Start the application pods
```

 ## Migrate a Single PVC

> 1) ```console

Author: moved

# What is persistent-volume-migrator?

The persistent-volume-migrator tool aims to help migrate Flex RBD Volumes to [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi) RBD Volumes.

# Getting Started

> **NOTE**: The Migration procedure will come with a downtime; As we need to scale down the applications using the Volumes before migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: The procedure will come with downtime while the applications are scaled down for the volume migration.
```

Author: updated

## Prerequisite
This guide assumes you have created a Ceph cluster with Flex and [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi).
1. We assume that you have healthy cluster i.e. `ceph status` shows `health: OK`
2. Minimum ceph version should be Ceph-CSI supported
3. Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.
4. Ceph-CSI storageClass should be created in which you want to migrate.

## Steps to Migrate
1. Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.
2. Create rbac required to run migrator pod

>    1. `kubectl create -f tests/manifests/rbac.yaml`

Reviewer: The yamls have been merged to migrator.yaml, right?

Author: yes...will update

3. Create migrator pod
   1. `kubectl create -f tests/manifests/toolbox.yaml`
4. Download the binary
   1. `wget <link to binary>`
5. Run the command to [migrate the PVC(s)](#migrate-the-pvcs)

## Migrate the PVCs
### Migrate a Single PVC

```console

> pvc-migrator --pvc=<pvc-name> --pvc-namespace=<pvc-namespace> --destination-sc=<storageclass-name-to-migrate-in> [--rook-namespace=rook-ceph] [--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace]

Reviewer: Let's break up the args into a couple lines so the user doesn't have to scroll right to see them.

# What is persistent-volume-migrator?

The persistent-volume-migrator tool aims to help migrate Flex RBD Volumes to [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi) RBD Volumes.

# Getting Started

**NOTE**: The procedure will come with downtime while the applications are scaled down for the volume migration.
## Prerequisite
This guide assumes you have created a Ceph cluster with Flex and [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi).
1. We assume that you have healthy cluster i.e. `ceph status` shows `health: OK`

> 2. Minimum ceph version should be Ceph-CSI supported

Reviewer 2: add a link to https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi#ceph-csi-features-and-available-versions for support matrix?

Author: added

> 3. Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.

Reviewer 2: there is no Rook requirement here?

Author: I can add Rook as a requirement here but I thought the requirement for Ceph-CSI is mentioned would be enough
```
This guide assumes you have created a Ceph cluster with Flex and [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi).
```

Author: Added.

Reviewer 2: AFAIK this tool cannot work with standalone cephcsi. it will work only if CSI is installed by Rook.

Author: okay, I have updated doc with `This guide assumes you have created a Rook-Ceph`

> 4. Ceph-CSI storageClass should be created in which you want to migrate.

Reviewer 2: no pre-req to set KUBECONFIG from where you will run this binary?

Author: I thought If the user have CSI which mean they have KUBECONFIG set and the user will run from the migrator pod(similar to the toolbox) which will have this set?

## Steps to Migrate
1. Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.
2. Create migrator pod

>    1. `kubectl create -f manifests/migrator.yaml`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   `kubectl create -f manifests/migrator.yaml`
```

Author: removed

3. Download the binary from release
4. Run the command to [migrate the PVC(s)](#migrate-the-pvcs)

## Migrate the PVCs
### Migrate a Single PVC

```console
pv-migrator --pvc=<pvc-name> --pvc-namespace=<pvc-namespace>
   --destination-sc=<storageclass-name-to-migrate-in>
   [--rook-namespace=rook-operator-namespace]
   [--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace]
```
   1. `--pvc`: **required**: reads name of the pvc to migrate
   2. `--pvc-ns`: **required**: reads the namespace of the PVC which is going to migrate
   3. `--destination-sc`: **required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you want mirgrate.
   4. `--rook-ns`: **optional** namespace where the rook operator is running. **defalult: rook-ceph**.

>    5. `--ceph-cluster-ns`: **optional** namespace where the ceph cluster is running. **defalult: rook-ceph**.

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a note just to highlight more that the user does not need to pass storageclass name when migrating a single PVC?

Author: added example command and output so I think it will be clear now.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   5. `--ceph-cluster-ns`: **optional** namespace where the ceph cluster is running. ** default: rook-ceph**.
```

### Migrate All PVCs in a StorageClass
```console
pv-migrator --source-storageclass=<flex-vol-storageclass>

>    --destination-sc=<storageclass-name-to-migrate-in>

Reviewer 2: `storageclass-name-to-migrate-in` to `csi-storageclass-name-to-migrate`

   [--rook-namespace=rook-operator-namespace]
   [--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace]
```

>    1. `--source-sc`: **required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you have your PVCs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   1. `--source-sc`: **required**: name of the storageclass in which you have your PVCs.
```

Reviewer 3: and in all other places too

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   1. `--source-sc`: **required**: name of the storageclass in which you have your PVCs.
```

   2. `--destination-sc`: **required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you want mirgrate.
   3. `--rook-ns`: **optional** namespace where the rook operator is running. **defalult: rook-ceph**.

>    4. `--ceph-cluster-ns`: **optional** namespace where the ceph cluster is running. **defalult: rook-ceph**.

Reviewer 2: provide the same output to show how migration will look like?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   4. `--ceph-cluster-ns`: **optional** namespace where the ceph cluster is running. **default: rook-ceph**.
```

# What is persistent-volume-migrator?

> The persistent-volume-migrator tool aims to help migrate Flex RBD Volumes to [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi) RBD Volumes.

Reviewer 4: A note about CephFS not being supported? (yet?)

Author: added

# Getting Started

**NOTE**: The procedure will come with downtime while the applications are scaled down for the volume migration.
## Prerequisite
This guide assumes you have created a Rook-Ceph cluster with Flex and [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi).
1. We assume that you have healthy cluster i.e. `ceph status` shows `health: OK`
2. Minimum ceph version should be Ceph-CSI supported. Check [Ceph-CSI](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi#ceph-csi-features-and-available-versions) supported versions.
3. Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.
4. Ceph-CSI storageClass should be created in which you want to migrate.

> ## Steps to Migrate

Reviewer 4: Add extra line after the title

1. Stop the application pods that are consuming the flex volume(s) that need to be converted.
2. Create migrator pod `kubectl create -f manifests/migrator.yaml`

> 3. Download the binary from release

Reviewer 4: Show how to download and install?

Author: I'm not sure download link. Maybe once we have the release I'll update or if you have any suggestion I can add too

4. Run the command to [migrate the PVC(s)](#migrate-the-pvcs)

## Migrate the PVCs
### Migrate a Single PVC

```console
pv-migrator --pvc=<pvc-name> --pvc-namespace=<pvc-namespace>
   --destination-sc=<csi-storageclass-name-to-migrate>
   [--rook-namespace=rook-operator-namespace]
   [--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace]
```
   1. `--pvc`: **required**: name of the pvc to migrate
   2. `--pvc-ns`: **required**: namespace of the PVC which is going to migrate
   3. `--destination-sc`: **required**: name of the storageclass in which you want mirgrate.

>    4. `--rook-ns`: **optional** namespace where the rook operator is running. **defalult: rook-ceph**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   4. `--rook-ns`: **optional** namespace where the rook operator is running. ** default: rook-ceph**.
```

I1125 07:56:22.266734      63 log.go:34] PV found "pvc-30a01887-8821-4baf-835c-16a7e55ba7f0"
---
I1125 07:56:26.483172      63 log.go:34] successfully renamed volume csi-vol-2f8de58f-4dc5-11ec-a130-0242ac110005 -> pvc-30a01887-8821-4baf-835c-16a7e55ba7f0
I1125 07:56:26.483194      63 log.go:34] Delete old PV object: pvc-30a01887-8821-4baf-835c-16a7e55ba7f0
I1125 07:56:26.504578      63 log.go:34] waiting for PV pvc-30a01887-8821-4baf-835c-16a7e55ba7f0 in state &PersistentVolumeStatus{Phase:Bound,Message:,Reason:,} to be deleted (0 seconds elapsed)
I1125 07:56:26.702921      63 log.go:34] deleted persistent volume pvc-30a01887-8821-4baf-835c-16a7e55ba7f0
I1125 07:56:26.702944      63 log.go:34] successfully migrated pvc rbd-pvc
I1125 07:56:26.703335      63 log.go:34] Successfully migrated all the PVCs to CSI
```

### Migrate All PVCs in a StorageClass
```console
pv-migrator --source-storageclass=<flex-vol-storageclass>
   --destination-sc=<csi-storageclass-name-to-migrate>
   [--rook-namespace=rook-operator-namespace]
   [--ceph-cluster-namespace=ceph-cluster-namespace]
```
   1. `--source-sc`: **required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you have your PVCs.

>    2. `--destination-sc`: **required**: read the name of the storageclass in which you want mirgrate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   2. `--destination-sc`: **required**: name of the storageclass to which you want to migrate.
```

Author: updated

>    3. `--rook-ns`: **optional** namespace where the rook operator is running. **defalult: rook-ceph**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   3. `--rook-ns`: **optional** namespace where the rook operator is running. ** default: rook-ceph**.
```
